Kokkos Function System (#31653)
idaholab/moose: framework/doc/content/syntax/KokkosFunctions/index.md

!if! function=hasCapability('kokkos')

Before reading this documentation, consider reading the following materials first for a better understanding of this documentation:

- [Functions System](syntax/Functions/index.md) to understand the MOOSE function system,
- [Getting Started with Kokkos-MOOSE](syntax/Kokkos/index.md) to understand the programming practices for Kokkos-MOOSE,
- [Kokkos Kernels System](syntax/KokkosKernels/index.md) to understand the common design pattern of objects in Kokkos-MOOSE.

!alert note
Kokkos-MOOSE functions do not support automatic differention yet.

A Kokkos-MOOSE function can be created by subclassing `Moose::Kokkos::FunctionBase` (not `Moose::Kokkos::Function`), which should be registered with `registerKokkosFunction()` instead of `registerMooseObject()`.
The signatures of the hook methods are defined as follows:

```cpp
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real value(Real t, Real3 p) const;
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real3 vectorValue(Real t, Real3 p) const;
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real3 gradient(Real t, Real3 p) const;
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real3 curl(Real t, Real3 p) const;
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real div(Real t, Real3 p) const;
KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real timeDerivative(Real t, Real3 p) const;

> KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real timeIntegral(Real t1, Real t2, Real3 p) const;

Author: I suggest to copy scalars and small structs whenever possible.

> KOKKOS_FUNCTION Real timeIntegral(Real t1, Real t2, Real3 p) const;

Reviewer: kk. Yea we don't have to dwell on this too much. Device profiling tools could help us change our minds in the future if need be

In fact, Kokkos-MOOSE already has the code path for acquiring functions as a type-agnostic abstract type and using virtual dispatch to evaluate actual functions.
There is another non-template API `getKokkosFunction` which returns an abstract type `Moose::Kokkos::Function`.
It is not the base class of your function but a wrapper class that contains your function and provides shims to call the function methods.

However, that code path is currently blocked for GPU backends, and you will hit a runtime error when you attempt to use it.
While our target GPU backends (CUDA, HIP, and Intel SYCL) support virtual functions on GPU, it requires the relocatable device code (RDC) option to be enabled during compilation, which the current MOOSE build system is lacking.
Kokkos imposes a restriction to have a consistent RDC configuration across the whole software stack, but PETSc, from which MOOSE is currently acquring Kokkos, requires significant changes in its build system to enable RDC.

> Namely, the current code is functional under the assumption that the MOOSE software stack can be built with the RDC option, but it involves a major rework from our upstream dependency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The non-templated `getKokkosFunction` code path is hypothetically functional under the assumption that the MOOSE software stack can be built with the RDC option, but this hypothetical will only become a reality after a PETSc build system rework.
```

> The PETSc and MOOSE team are looking into this issue, and it is expected to be resolved in a foreseeable future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PETSc and MOOSE team are looking into this issue, and it is expected to be resolved in the foreseeable future.
```
